The Chess World CUp 2023 was a 206-player single-elimination chess tournament that tool place in Baku, Azerbaijan from 30 July to 24 August 2023. It was the 10th edition of the Chess World Cup. Ordinarily the top three finishers in the tournament will qualify for the 2024 Candidates Tournament, but since Magnus Carlsn is unlikely to play in the Candidates Tournament, the remaining semi-finalists will qualify. The tournament was held in parallel with the Women's Chess World Cup 2023. 

The total prize fund is US$1,834,000, with the first prize of US$100,000. 
After three days and four games of intensely nervy chess across two formats, Magnus Carlsen finally anaged to win the FIDE World Cup for the first time in his career on Thursday. He defeated India's Praggnanandhaa in the final, but not before the 18-year-old teenage podigy had dragged him through the tie-breaker. Carlsen's win was confirmed after the second game of the tiebreaker. The two players had played out one draw each on Tuesday and Wednesday. Fabiano Caruana wins the bronze. 

Regardless of the final loss, the FIDE World has been an event to savor for the teenager from Chennai since he also sealed a spot at the prestigious Candidates Tournament, which is held to find a challenger for world champion Ding Liren at the next world chess championship battle.

Pragg, who turned 18 during the World Cup, was the youngest World Cup finalist ever, and is the youngest World Cup winner. Seeded 31, Pragg is also the lowest seed to make the final of the World Cup. 

Thanks to making it to the final, Praggnanandha became the third youngest plauer after the legendary Bobby Fisher and Carlsen to qualify for the Candidates Tournament. 
Indian chess prodigy, Rameshbabu Praggnanandha's remarkable journey came to a close as he lost to the world's no. 1 chess player, Magnus Carlsen in a thrilling final showdown at the FIDE World Cup on Thursday. The tie-breaker clash concluded with Carlsen Carlsen emerging victorious at 1.5-0.5, after the classical games had ended in a stalemate. Despite a valiant effort by Praggnanandha, Carlsen showcased his end-game prowess to secure his first-ever World Cup triumph, and addition to his already impressive five World Chess Championship titles.